---
layout: default_dark
title: Electromagnetism
---
<h3>Electromagnetism</h3>
<p>System: categorisation of an environment into a set of internal attributes and a set of external influences.<br><br>
Momentum principle: observation that if we define a system as having no external force, then internal momentum is conserved.<br><br>
	\[\vec{p} = mv\]
	\[\Delta\vec{p} = F\Delta t\]
	\[\Delta\vec{p} = 0 \>\> → \>\> p_{i} = p_{f}\]
            </p>

<p>Energy principle: observation that if we define a system as having no energy exchange due to temperature difference, then internal energy is conserved.<br><br>
	\[\Delta E = W + Q\]
	\[\Delta E = 0 \>\> → \>\> E_i = E_f\]</p>

<p>Angular Momentum principle: observation that if we define a system as having no external torque, then angular momentum of the system is conserved.<br><br>
	\[L = mvr\]
	\[ \Delta L = τ\Delta t\]
	\[ \Delta L = 0 \>\> → \>\> L_{i} = L_{f}\]</p>

<p>Conservation of Charge: observation that if we define a system as having no surrounding charge, then charge of the system is conserved.<br><br>
	\[\Delta Q = Q_{surrounding} = Q_{f} - Q_{i}\]
	\[Q_{surrounding} = 0 \>\> \rightarrow \>\> Q_{i} = Q_{f}f\]</p>

<p>
Energy: degree to which a thing exerts a force that displaces.
Electric charge: property of matter that results in the experience of force when placed in an electromagnetic field, measured in Coulombs (C).
Point charge: reduction of an electrically charge object to one with equal mass and charge but no shape and no volume. 
Test charge: a hypothetical particle with a negligibly small electric charge (for mapping out electric field lines).
Electric field lines: vectors representing force exerted on test charge if placed at a given point in an electric field.
Electric field: Field generated by electrically charged objects, measured in Newtons per Coulomb (N/C) or Voltage per Charge (V/Q).
Field: a physical quantity which has a value at every point in spacetime.
	\[k = \frac{1}{4πε}\]
	\[E = (k\frac{Q}{r^2})\hat{r}\]
	\[F = qE = (k\frac{Qq}{r^2})d\]
	\[E = 0 \>\> as \>\> r → ∞, \>\> E = ∞ \>\> as \>\> r → 0\]
</p>
<p>
Electric potential difference (Voltage): amount of work required to displace one unit charge from point to point in an electric field; scalar field measured in joules/coulombs
	\[ \Delta U = -\int_{i}^{f}F⋅dr \]
	\[ U = k\frac{Qq}{\hat{r}} \]	
	\[ V = \frac{\Delta U}{q} = -\int_{0}^{∞}E\hat{r} \]
	\[ V = 0 \>\> as \>\> r → ∞, \>\> V = ∞ \>\> as \>\> r → 0\]</p>

<p>
Electric Field/Electric Potential interchange:
	\[ F = -(\frac{dV}{dr})\hat{r} \]
	\[ F = \nabla V \]
	\[ V = -∫E∙dr \] </p>
<p>
Equipotential lines: lines drawn in an electric field diagram illustrating lines of points where test charge would be of equal voltage.<br><br>
Superposition Principle: electric field of any given point in space is equal to the vector sum of the electric field due to each contributing charge.<br><br>
	\[ E_{net} = E_1 + E_2 + ... + E_n \]
	\[ E = ∫dE = ∫k(\frac{dQ}{r^3})\hat{r} \]
	\[ V = ∫dV = ∫k(\frac{dQ}{r}) \]
	\[ F = qE \]
	\[ U = qV \]
</p>
<p>
Charge density: charge per unit volume for a given object.
	\[ λ = \frac{Q}{L} \]
	\[ dQ = λdL = λdx = λdy \]
	\[ \sigma = \frac{Q}{A} \]
	\[ dQ = \sigma dA \]
	\[ \rho = \frac{Q}{V} \]
	\[ d\rho = pdV \]
</p>
<p>
Electric flux: measure of the number of electric field lines passing through a surface.<br><br>
	\[ Φ = E ⋅ S = EScos(\theta) \]
	\[ Φ = \frac{Q}{ε} \]
</p>
<p>
Electrostatic equilibirum: condition in a charged conductor where excess charge is optimally distributed so as to reduce total repulsive force such that \(E = 0\).<br><br>
Conductors: materials that encourage the flow of electric charge.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;Mobile valent electrons cause entire material to be polarized in presence of external charge.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;Excess charge disperses into surface charge distribution with time.<br> 
&emsp;&emsp;Has internal electric field equal to zero.<br>
</p>
<p>
Insulators: materials that resist the flow of electric charge.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;Tightly bound electrons mean that electron clouds are polarized in presence of external charge<br>
&emsp;&emsp;Excess charge does not disperse with time<br>
&emsp;&emsp;Likely has internal electric field increasing towards surface from zero-value at centre<br>
</p>
<p>
Faraday Cage: conductive enclosure designed to reduce internal electric field to zero for the purpose of protecting people or electronics from electromagnetic radiation.<br><br>
Battery: chemical separation of charge that converts chemical energy into electrical energy. Consists of two wire-connected metal plates placed in salt solution, one of which 
chemically reacts to produce excess negative charge on plate, one of which chemically reacts to produce excess negative charge in salt solution and thus positive charge on plate (redox reaction).<br>
</p>
<p>
Current: stream of charged particles in motion.<br>
Circuit: set of electronic components through which electric current flows. Batteries create excess charge when connected to a circuit and thus a continuous charge gradient to/from the positive and negative terminal.<br><br>
	&emsp;&emsp;\( i = nAv \)&emsp;&emsp;current, electron density, cross-sectional area, average speed of electrons.<br>
	&emsp;&emsp;\( I = qi \)&emsp;&emsp;current, charge, current (measured in coulomb's/second: amperes).<br>
</p>
<p>
Kirchoff node rule: if charge is conserved in a system then \(\frac{Q_{in}}{s} = \frac{Q_{out}}{s}\) and thus \(i_{in} = i_{out}\), i.e. current is also conserved in that system.<br>
Drift velocity: average velocity of an electron as it interacts with positive nuclei whilst passing through a wire, yielding a mountainous velocity vs time graph.<br>
	\[ v = \frac{p}{m} = \frac{eE\Delta t}{m} \]
	\[ u = \frac{e\Delta t}{m} \]
	\[ v = uE \]
	\[ i = nAuE \]
</p>
<p>
Resistor: electronic component that reduces current flow. Consider a narrower segment of wire, for which charged particles bottleneck and thus create an electric field in opposition to the direction of current flow. <br>
		\[ i_{thin} = i_{thick} \]
        \[ nAuE_{thin} = nAuE_{thick} \]
        \[ AE_{thin} = AE_{thick} \]
        \[ E_{thin} = (\frac{A_{thick}}{A_{thin}}) \]
        \[ E_{thick} \>\> → \>\> E_{thin} \gt E_{thick} \]
		\[ v_{avg} = uE \>\> → \>\> v_{thin} \gt v_{thick} \]
</p>
<p>
Loop rule: sum of electrical potential across all circuit elements in circuit equals zero
	\[  \Delta V_{1} + \Delta V_{2} + ... + \Delta V_{n} = 0 \]	
</p>
<p>
Power:<br>
    \[ P = \frac{\Delta U}{\Delta T} \]
	\[ P = I\Delta V \] </p>
<p>
Conductivity:
	\[ \sigma = qnu \]
	\[ I = \sigma AE \]
	\[ J = \sigma E \] 
</p>
<p>
Charging/Discharging: increasing/decreasing the magnitude of the net electric charge of an object (e.g. charging by conduction, induction). <br><br>
A capacitor: a device that stores electrical energy in an electric field by virtue of accumulating opposite electric charges on two close surfaces insulated from each other.
The positive plate in the capacitor is drawn to the negative plate and have high and low electric potential energy respectively. Consider a test charge between these plates<br><br>
	\[ \Delta PE = -W = -Eqr \]
</p>
<p>
Capacitance: ability of a circuit component to store energy in the form of electric charge<br>
	\[ C = \frac{Q}{V} \]
	\[ C = kεAd \]
</p>
<p>
Dielectric: insulating material placed between plates of capactior.	
Energy density: energy stored in an electric field per unit volume.
    \[ \frac{PE}{V} = (\frac{1}{2})εE^2 \]
</p>
<p>Current: flow of charge, measured in coulomb's per second.
	\[ I = \frac{\Delta Q}{\Delta t} \]
</p>
<p>
Digital current: current that does not change direction.<br>
Alternating current: current that periodically changes direction.<br>
Resistance: resistance to current such that \(1V\) voltage generates \(1A\) current against \(1Ω\) resistance.<br>
Ohm's law: \(V = IR\)<br><br>
Electric power is quantity of electric work done across time measured in watts (W)<br>
	\[ P = \frac{W}{\Delta t} = \frac{\Delta QV}{\Delta t} = IV \]
</p>
<p>
Electromotive force: energy transfer to an electric circuit per unit charge (voltaic cells and other electrical transducers are examples of emf-providers)
	\[ E = \frac{W}{Q} \]
	\[ V = E - IR \]
</p>
<p>
Circuit: series of materials that manipulate electric current through which an electric current can flow.<br><br>
Series circuit: circuit or subset of a circuit in which electronic components exist on a single path through which current flows.
	Current is constant for all electronic components, voltage drops with resistance.<br><br>
Parallel circuit: circuit or subset of a circuit in which electronic components exist on multiple paths through which current flows. 
	Voltage is constant for all electronic components, current favours path of least resistance.<br><br>
Conservation of voltage: according to the conservation of energy, total voltage applied to the circuit equals the sum of all voltage drops in the circuit.
</p>
    </div>
    </main>
</body>
</html>